[MUSIC]
The algorithm we have so
far is great in terms of cost,
it's average cost is at most opt.
But it's not so good in terms of coverage,
it's got a set cover.
On average it only covers
about 63% of the ailments.
So what are we going to do?
The idea is simple, iterate.
Repeat taking steps until
you get a natural set cover.
And so here is a randomized
rounding algorithm for set cover.
Let n denote the number of
elements in a set cover.
We will repeat ln(n)+3 times
the following operation.
For each set S, we put S in our cover
with probability x(S) if of
course it's not there already.
Why +3?
Because e cubed is about 20.
So what do we do with this?
Let's see.
What does this mean?
The cost in expectation will
be at most (ln(n) +3)OPT.
Very good.
This will give us a log(n)
approximation if it's a set cover.
What about correctness?
What is the probability
that the output is a cover?
It's one minus the probability
that it's not a cover.
What is the probability
that it's not a cover?
It's the probability that some
element there exists an element
that is not covered.
The probability that there exists
an element is at most a sum of
the probabilities, because probability
of A or B is at most probability
of A plus probability of B,
even if A and B are not independent.
This is a general fact.
So the probability that
the output is not a cover
is at most the sum over every element E Of
the probability that e is not covered.
What is that quantity?
What is the probability
that e is not covered?
For one element e, fixed one element e,
and for one iteration,
let's look at one iteration of the for
loop.
We know from previous analysis that
the probability that e is not covered,
is at most one over e.
If you put all iterations together,
they are all independent.
So the probability that e is not covered,
is the probability that every
iteration is not covered.
This is a product of the probabilities,
because all these events are independent
from one iteration to the next.
And so
each of them can be bounded by 1 over e.
It's the product there
are log n plus 3 terms, so
that at most,
1 over e to the log n plus 3.
What is that?
1/e cubed n.
About 1 over 20n.
Putting it together, the sum over
every element e of the probability
that the element is not covered,
is at most n times 1/e cubed n,
which is less than 0.05.
Therefore the output is a correct set
cover with probability at least 95%.
In other words, what we have proved is
that by doing randomized rounding and
iterating, iterated randomized rounding,
gives us a collection of
sets that is a set cover.
With probability at least 95% and
with cost is on average,
at most log n plus 3 times opt.
We're almost there.
We have something which is essentially
a randomized algorithm for set cover, for
almost set cover, for something that
95% of the time is the set cover.
In the next part, what we will see is
how to transform this into an algorithm
that always returns a set cover.